feat: Improve continuous integration guide (#2612)
apify/apify-docs: sources/platform/actors/development/deployment/continuous_integration.md

---

Automating your Actor development process can save time and reduce errors, especially for projects with multiple Actors or frequent updates. Instead of manually pushing code, building Actors, and running tests, you can automate these steps to run whenever you push code to your repository.

Set up continuous integration for your Actors using one of these methods:

> - [Option 1: GitHub Actions](#option-1-set-up-automated-builds-with-github-actions) - the most flexible approach, with support for tests, multi-branch builds, and custom workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [GitHub Actions](#github-actions) - the most flexible approach, with support for tests, multi-branch builds, and custom workflows.
```

> - [Option 2: Build API webhook](#option-2-trigger-builds-with-a-webhook) - works with Bitbucket, GitLab, and other Git hosting providers that support webhooks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [API webhook](#api-webhook) - works with Bitbucket, GitLab, and other Git hosting providers that support webhooks.
```

> - [Option 3: GitHub integration](#option-3-use-the-apify-github-integration) - the quickest setup with no workflow files needed, but less flexible than GitHub Actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [GitHub integration](#github-integration) - the quickest setup with no workflow files needed, but less flexible than GitHub Actions.
```

> ## Option 1: Set up automated builds with GitHub Actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set up automated builds with GitHub Actions {#github-actions}
```
Explicit heading IDs make it easier to maintain.

> Use the official [`apify/push-actor-action`](https://github.com/apify/push-actor-action) GitHub Action to push your Actor source code to the Apify platform and build it on every push. This works similarly to running `apify push` with the Apify CLI, and gives you full control over your CI pipeline - you can run tests, manage multiple branches, and customize the workflow to fit your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To push your Actor source code to the Apify platform and build it on every push, use the official [`apify/push-actor-action`](https://github.com/apify/push-actor-action) GitHub Action. It works similarly to running `apify push` with the Apify CLI, and gives you full control over your CI pipeline: you can run tests, manage multiple branches, and customize the workflow.
```

### Prerequisites

- Your Actor source code in a GitHub repository with a valid `.actor/actor.json` file.
- An Apify API token. Find yours in [Apify Console](https://console.apify.com/settings/integrations) under **Settings** > **Integrations**.

>   ![Apify token in app](./images/ci-token.png)

Reviewer: Let's delete the screenshot, not necessary.

### Step 1: Add your Apify token to GitHub secrets

> 1. Go to your GitHub repository > **Settings** > **Secrets and variables** > **Actions** > **New repository secret**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to your GitHub repository.
1. Select **Settings** > **Security and quality**  > **Secrets and variables** > **Actions**.
1. In the **Secrets** tab, go to **Repository secrets** and select **New repository secret**.
```

> 1. Name the secret `APIFY_TOKEN` and paste in your API token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Complete the following fields:
  - **Name**: use `APIFY_TOKEN` as a name for your secret.
  - **Secret**: paste your Apify API token.
```

>    ![Add Apify token to secrets](./images/ci-add-token.png)

Reviewer: Let's delete the screenshot, it's not necessary.

        uses: apify/push-actor-action@v1
        with:
          token: ${{ secrets.APIFY_TOKEN }}
          build-tag: beta
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="test-and-push.yml" label="With tests">

Run tests before pushing the Actor to the Apify platform:

```yaml
name: Test and push latest version
on:
  push:
    branches:
      - master
      - main
jobs:
  test-and-push:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4

      - name: Set up Node.js
        uses: actions/setup-node@v4
        with:
          node-version: 22

      - name: Install dependencies and run tests
        run: npm install && npm run test

      - name: Push Actor to Apify
        id: push
        uses: apify/push-actor-action@v1
        with:
          token: ${{ secrets.APIFY_TOKEN }}

      - name: Print build details
        run: |
          echo "Build ${{ steps.push.outputs.build-id }} finished with status ${{ steps.push.outputs.build-status }}"
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

For the full list of inputs (such as `actor-id`, `version`, and `working-directory`) and outputs, see the [`apify/push-actor-action` README](https://github.com/apify/push-actor-action).

> ## Option 2: Trigger builds with a webhook

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Trigger builds with a webhook {#api-webhook}
```

> If you use Bitbucket, GitLab, or another Git hosting provider that supports webhooks, you can trigger Actor builds by calling the Apify build API on every push. This approach only triggers a build - it doesn't push your source code to the platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use Bitbucket, GitLab, or another Git hosting provider that supports webhooks, you can trigger Actor builds by calling the Apify build API on every push. This approach only triggers a build, it doesn't push your source code to the platform.
```

:::note Source code

When using the webhook approach, the Actor must have its source set to a Git repository in Apify Console. The webhook only triggers a build using the source already configured on the platform.

:::

> 1. Go to your Actor's detail page in Apify Console, click the **API** tab in the top right, then select **API Endpoints**. Copy the **Build Actor** API endpoint URL:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to your Actor's detail page in Apify Console.
1. Go to the **API** tab. 
1. Select **API Endpoints** and copy the **Build Actor** API endpoint URL:
```

   ```text
   https://api.apify.com/v2/actors/YOUR-ACTOR-NAME/builds?token=YOUR-TOKEN-HERE&version=0.0&tag=latest&waitForFinish=60
   ```

1. In your repository hosting provider, add a webhook that fires on push events and set the URL to the build API endpoint you copied.

For example, in GitHub, go to **Settings** > **Webhooks** > **Add webhook** and paste the URL into the **Payload URL** field.

![GitHub integration](./images/ci-github-integration.png)

:::tip Bitbucket Pipelines

For a more complete Bitbucket setup with automated tests, see the [Bitbucket CI guide](https://help.apify.com/en/articles/6988586-setting-up-continuous-integration-for-apify-actors-on-bitbucket).

:::

> ## Option 3: Use the Apify GitHub integration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use the Apify GitHub integration {#github-integration}
```
